Describe the meaning of Protocol?
    Protocol is a "set of rules" which is used in digital information to connect devices and exchange data between them.

Types of Protocol
    TCP -  Transmision control Protocol.
           It is used to transfer the data over the internet. it divides the data in small packet and sends it to the destination through the network.

    IP -   Internet Protocol
           While IP is used for identify devices where we want to send data.

    FTP -  File transfer protocol
           
    HTTP - Hyper text transfer protocol
           HTTP is used to establish a connection with the server and send html pages back to the user's browser(client).
           
    HTTPs - Hyper text transfer protocol secure
    POP -  Post office protocol
    UDP -  User Datagram protocol
    SMTP - Simple mail transfer protocol
    IMAP - Internet message Access protocol






-websocket client application uses the "websocket api" to communicate with the "websocket server" using "websocket protocol".


-There are four main WebSocket API events −
    
    -Open
        -Once the connection has been established between the client and the server, the open event is fired from Web Socket instance. It is called as the initial handshake between client and server.
        -The event, which is raised once the connection is established, is called onopen.

    -Message
        -Message event happens usually when the server sends some data to the client that data can be plain text or binary or images etc.
        -Whenever the data is sent from server to client, the onmessage function is fired.

    -Close
        -Closing the connection is possible with the help of onclose event. After marking the end of communication with the help of onclose event, no messages can be further transferred between the server and the client.
        -Closing the event can happen due to poor connectivity as well.

    -Error
        -Error marks for some mistake, which happens during the communication.
        -It is marked with the help of onerror event.
        -Onerror is always followed by termination of connection.


Web Sockets – Actions

    -send()
        -This action is usually preferred for some communication with the server, which includes sending messages, which includes text files, binary data or images.
        -socket.send(para1.para2,para3)
            para1 takes the data any type of data. {The data to send.}
            para2 takes some boolean value. {Object}
            para3 takes a callback function. (An optional callback which is invoked when data is written out. If an error occurs, the callback is called with the error as its first argument.).

    -close()
        -This method stands for goodbye handshake. It terminates the connection completely and no data can be transferred until the connection is re-established.
        -socket.close()


-

-It is necessary to initialize the connection to the server from client for communication between them.

-For initializing the connection, creation of Javascript object with the URL with the remote or local server is required.

Like this
var socket = new WebSocket(“ ws://echo.websocket.org ”);



headers event : 
                        Emitted before the response headers are written to the socket as part of the handshake. This allows you to inspect/modify the headers before they are sent.

                        websocket.on("headers",(para1,para2)=>{
                         -para1 takes some properties as an array
                         -para2 takes some information
                         })

connection event :      
                        Emitted when the handshake is complete. request is the http GET request sent by the client. Useful for parsing authority headers, cookie headers, and other information.

                        websocket.on("connection",(para1,para2)=>{
                            para1 takes websocket
                            para2 takes get request from client side. 
                        })

                        
Note : onopen api send msg from client received at connection event at server 


why we use socket.io instead of websocket.

reconnect
binary
multi-room
blocker








1) difference between oninput and onchange events. 

    input event is similar to the onchange event. The difference is that the oninput event occurs immediately after the value of an element has changed, while onchange occurs when the element loses focus, after the content has been changed. The other difference is that the onchange event also works on <select> elements.

Note : 
     -Bydefault get syntheticBaseEvent when any events     occurs.(syntheticEvent uses as synchronus and if we want to use it as asynchronus we must use event.persist() method.)
     
     -For updating state depending on previous state we use function inside setState that function get previous state Bydefault (when store multiple value at one state)

     -Pass data from child to parent component using event with the help of function.

     -importance of key(unique id) when dynamic rendering list of data.

     -toISOString() method is used to convert date object's into string in ISO formate like (yy-mm-dd) here also can use toLocaleString() and object.getFullYear().

     -custom component using as a wrapper like Card component (wrapper component).



2) difference between regular and arrow function
    
    "syntax"

    "this keyword" 

        In regular function, this keyword depends on how to invoke the function

            -if we invoke the function as a regular "Function()" then this keyword gets the value of window object.(Note:but in strict mode this keyword return undefined)

            -if we invoke the function like "Function.call() or Function.apply()" then this keyword gets the first argument as value of it and remainnig as a parameter.(Note:In apply method argument take must in array and in call method can be array or multiple arguments.  )

            -if we invoke the function inside the object then this keyword takes the value as a object.

            if we invoke the function with new keyword then this keyword takes the instance as function.

        "this keyword" in arrow function 

            In arrow function this keyword takes the value from parent regular function. 

    "constructors"

        In regular function

            In regular function new keyword creates new instance of function 
        
        In arrow function
            In arrow function new keyword doesn't create instance of function.

    "Bydefault behaviour of arguments" (all arguments take without parameter)

        In regular function
            In regular function, arguments is a special key which is contain all arguments in array.

        In arrow function 
            In arrow function arguments is using as lexically means takes parent regular function's arguments.

    "Implicit return"

        In regular function 
            If return expression is not defined or missing in regular function then return "undefined"

        In arrow function
            In arrow function if only one expression without return then it takes that expression as return.  
            and if more than one expression then it is return undifined (if missing return)

    "No duplicate parameter name"
        
        In regular function
             we use the duplicate parameter name in strict mode then gives error for that but if doesn't use the strict mode then will not give the error.

        In arrow function
            In arrow function, duplicate parameter's name gives the error doesn't matter strict mode has used or not.



What is Server ? Complete explaination of server?
server is a system that provides data, resources ,services and programs to other computer and fulfill request of other computer.
Advantages of server
Backup
Security
Storage
Difference between server and system
Server is always connected with highspeed of internet compare to user's system
Server's ram is to high compare to user's system.
server is always switch on.
server is main system of it's own network.
Similarity between server and system
Server and user's System both have operating system and ram.
Types of server ?
File Server
Application server
Mail server
Web server
Database server
Disadvantage of server
if Server failed then the entire network has fail.
Server is too coastly. small entity can not buy it.
What is javascript ?
JavaScript is a High Level
Prototype-Based object oriented
Multi-paradigm
Procedural programming
Object oriented programming
functional programming language
Interpreted or just-in-time-compiled
Dynamic
Singal threaded
Garbage-collection programming language
Garbage collection is a basically algorithm inside the JavaScript engine which is automatically removes old and unused object from the computer memory. in order not to clog it up with unnecessary stuff.
with first class functions
and a Non blocking event loop concurrency modal.
Concurrency Modal
How the javascript engine handles multiple tasks happening at the same time.






What is modules in js ?
Module is a just js file with .js extension.
The objects in a module are not available for use unless the module file export them.
There are two types of module function.
Export function
There are two types of export method or function.
export default
only one export default per module
export name
Import function
    
    
    
    


    











    socket.io